README.md, before:

linecook(1) -- render ERB templates
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`linecook` [options] TEMPLATE FIELDS...

## DESCRIPTION

**linecook** renders ERB templates.  Templates can specify named arguments,
defaults, and are simple enough to serve as recipes for all the little things.

## OPTIONS

These options control how `linecook` operates.

* `-A`, `--attribute KEY=VALUE`:
  Sets an attribute by key.

* `-a`, `--attributes-file FILE`:
  Set attributes from a YAML file.

* `-c`, `--csv-files`:
  Treat FIELDS as csv files.

* `-e`:
  Treat TEMPLATE as the template string.

* `-F`, `--field-sep FS`:
  The csv field sep. (assumes -c)

* `-f`, `--force`:
  Force overwrite existing on `-o`.

* `-H`, ` --headers`:
   Indicates that csv files have header rows. If field names are set in the
   template then map fields where the head- ers and field names match.
   (assumes -c)

* `-h`, `--help`:
  Prints help.

* `-I`, `--path LINECOOK_PATH`:
  Set the template search path.

* `-l`, ` --list`:
   List templates along LINECOOK_PATH that match the current TEMPLATE. If
   not TEMPLATE is provided then all templates are listed.

* `-o`, `--output-dir DIR`:
   Print template to file.

## USAGE

Templates are ruby ERB.  When rendered the template can access the fields of
each record in the csv file as the Array `fields` and global attributes as the
Hash `attrs`.

    printf '%s\n' 'got <%= fields.inspect %> <%= attrs.inspect %>' > example.erb
    printf '%s,%s,%s\n' a b c x y z > example.csv
    linecook example.erb example.csv
    # got ["a", "b", "c"] {}
    # got ["x", "y", "z"] {}

No specific extname is needed for a template file, but if the extname is
`.erb` then `linecook` will look for a YAML properties file with the same name
but with a `.yml` extname.  The properties file can specify default attrs,
field names/defaults, template documentation, etc.  With properties `linecook`
can map fields by header, and provide the template with variables to access
named attrs and fields.

    cat > example.erb <<DOC
    got A=<%= a %> B=<%= b %> (<%= key %>)
    DOC

    cat > example.yml <<DOC
    attrs:
      key: value
    fields:
      a: A
      b: 1
    DOC

    printf '%s,%s\n' 1 2 3 4 > example.csv

    linecook example.erb example.csv
    # got A=1 B=2 (value)
    # got A=4 B=4 (value)

Both files can be combined in the `.lc` format wherein the properties are
expressed in a section separated from the template by '---'.

    cat > example.lc <<DOC
    attrs:
      key: value
    fields:
      a: A
      b: 1
    ---
    got A=<%= a %> B=<%= b %> (<%= key %>)
    DOC

    linecook example.lc example.csv
    # got A=1 B=2 (value)
    # got A=4 B=4 (value)

Note the `.lc` format is shebang-friendly.

    cat > example <<DOC
    #!/usr/bin/env linecook
    $(cat example.lc)
    DOC
    chmod +x example

    ./example example.csv
    # got A=1 B=2 (value)
    # got A=4 B=4 (value)

## ENVIRONMENT

The behavior of **linecook** can be modified via environment variables. Many
of these may be set using options.

* `LINECOOK_PATH` (~/.linecook:/etc/linecook):
  The path for looking up templates.

**linecook** reserves all variables starting with 'LINECOOK\_' for internal use.

## INSTALLATION

Add `linecook` to your PATH (or execute it directly). A nice way of doing so
is to clone the repo and add the bin dir to PATH. This allows easy updates via
`git pull` and should make the manpages available via `man linecook`.

    git clone git://github.com/goodlittlescript/linecook.git
    export PATH="$PWD/linecook/bin:$PATH"

If you're using [homebrew](http://brew.sh/) on OSX you can tap
[goodlittlescript](https://github.com/goodlittlescript/homebrew-gls).

    brew tap goodlittlescript/homebrew-gls
    brew install linecook

## DEVELOPMENT

Clone the repo as above.  To run the tests (written in `ts` - see
https://github.com/thinkerbot/ts for installation instruction):

    ./test/suite

To generate the manpages:

    rake manpages

Report bugs here: http://github.com/goodlittlescript/linecook/issues.

## COPYRIGHT

Linecook is Copyright (C) 2015 Simon Chiang <http://github.com/thinkerbot>

Commit message:

Only allow templates in the lc format
The erb + yaml variation is not particularly useful in the single file case
and there may be more useful variations when I get to directories.

README.md, after:

linecook(1) -- render ERB templates
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`linecook` [options] TEMPLATE FIELDS...

## DESCRIPTION

**linecook** renders ERB templates.  Templates can specify named arguments,
defaults, and are simple enough to serve as recipes for all the little things.

## OPTIONS

These options control how `linecook` operates.

* `-A`, `--attribute KEY=VALUE`:
  Sets an attribute by key.

* `-a`, `--attributes-file FILE`:
  Set attributes from a YAML file.

* `-c`, `--csv-files`:
  Treat FIELDS as csv files.

* `-e`:
  Treat TEMPLATE as the template string.

* `-F`, `--field-sep FS`:
  The csv field sep. (assumes -c)

* `-f`, `--force`:
  Force overwrite existing on `-o`.

* `-H`, ` --headers`:
   Indicates that csv files have header rows. If field names are set in the
   template then map fields where the head- ers and field names match.
   (assumes -c)

* `-h`, `--help`:
  Prints help.

* `-I`, `--path LINECOOK_PATH`:
  Set the template search path.

* `-l`, ` --list`:
   List templates along LINECOOK_PATH that match the current TEMPLATE. If
   not TEMPLATE is provided then all templates are listed.

* `-o`, `--output-dir DIR`:
   Print template to file.

## USAGE

Templates are ruby ERB.  When rendered the template can access the fields of
each record in the csv file as the Array `fields` and global attributes as the
Hash `attrs`.

    printf '%s\n' 'got <%= fields.inspect %> <%= attrs.inspect %>' > example.lc
    printf '%s,%s,%s\n' a b c x y z > example.csv
    linecook example.lc example.csv
    # got ["a", "b", "c"] {}
    # got ["x", "y", "z"] {}

Templates can specify properties as YAML front- matter. Properties change the
rendering behavior of templates, for instance by providing named attrs and
fields.

    cat > example.lc <<DOC
    attrs:
      key: value
    fields:
      a: A
      b: 1
    ---
    got A=<%= a %> B=<%= b %> (<%= key %>)
    DOC

    printf '%s,%s\n' 1 2 3 4 > example.csv

    linecook example.lc example.csv
    # got A=1 B=2 (value)
    # got A=4 B=4 (value)

Note the `.lc` format is shebang-friendly.

    cat > example <<DOC
    #!/usr/bin/env linecook
    $(cat example.lc)
    DOC
    chmod +x example

    ./example example.csv
    # got A=1 B=2 (value)
    # got A=4 B=4 (value)

## ENVIRONMENT

The behavior of **linecook** can be modified via environment variables. Many
of these may be set using options.

* `LINECOOK_PATH` (~/.linecook:/etc/linecook):
  The path for looking up templates.

**linecook** reserves all variables starting with 'LINECOOK\_' for internal use.

## INSTALLATION

Add `linecook` to your PATH (or execute it directly). A nice way of doing so
is to clone the repo and add the bin dir to PATH. This allows easy updates via
`git pull` and should make the manpages available via `man linecook`.

    git clone git://github.com/goodlittlescript/linecook.git
    export PATH="$PWD/linecook/bin:$PATH"

If you're using [homebrew](http://brew.sh/) on OSX you can tap
[goodlittlescript](https://github.com/goodlittlescript/homebrew-gls).

    brew tap goodlittlescript/homebrew-gls
    brew install linecook

## DEVELOPMENT

Clone the repo as above.  To run the tests (written in `ts` - see
https://github.com/thinkerbot/ts for installation instruction):

    ./test/suite

To generate the manpages:

    rake manpages

Report bugs here: http://github.com/goodlittlescript/linecook/issues.

## COPYRIGHT

Linecook is Copyright (C) 2015 Simon Chiang <http://github.com/thinkerbot>
